Welcome to Kubernetes
Objects part 1.
After watching this video,
you will be able to;
define a Kubernetes object
and its properties,
describe basic Kubernetes
objects and their features,
and demonstrate how Kubernetes
objects relate to each other.
In the real world, an object
is something that
has an identity,
a state, and a behavior.
A window or a shopping cart
are examples of objects.
A software object is a bundle
of data that has an identity,
a state, and a behavior.
Examples include variables,
data structures, and
specific functions.
Another term is entity,
which also has an identity
and associated data.
For example, in banking,
a customer account is an entity.
Finally, the term
persistent means something
will last even if there is
a server failure
or network attack.
An example is
persistent storage.
Kubernetes objects are
persistent entities.
Examples include
pods, namespaces,
replica sets,
deployments, and more.
Kubernetes objects consist
of two main fields,
object spec and status.
The object spec is
provided by the user,
which dictates an
object's desired state.
Status is provided
by Kubernetes.
This describes the current
state of the object.
Kubernetes works
towards matching
the current state to
the desired state.
To work with these objects,
use the Kubernetes
API directly with
the client libraries and
the kubectl command-line
interface or both.
Labels are key value pairs
attached to objects.
They are intended for
identification of objects.
However, a label does not
uniquely identify
a single object.
Many objects can have
the same labels,
and this helps to organize
and group objects.
Label selectors are the core
grouping method in Kubernetes.
They allow you to identify
a set of objects.
Namespaces provide
a mechanism for
isolating groups of resources
within a single cluster.
This is useful when teams
share a cluster for
cost-saving purposes or for
maintaining multiple
projects in isolation.
Namespaces are ideal when
the number of cluster
users is large.
Examples of namespaces
are kube system,
intended for system users and
the default namespace used
to hold user's applications.
There are different patterns
of working with namespaces.
There may be only one namespace
for a user who works
with one team,
which only has one project
that is deployed into a cluster.
Alternatively, there
may be many teams or
projects or a lot of users
with different needs,
where additional
namespaces may be created.
Namespaces provide a scope
for the names of objects.
Each object must
have a unique name
for that resource type
within that namespace.
A pod is the simplest
unit in Kubernetes.
A pod represents a process or
a single instance of an
application running
in the cluster.
A pod usually wraps one
or more containers,
and creating replicas of
a pod serves to scale an
application horizontally.
YAML files are often used
to define the object
that you want to create.
The YAML file shown
defines a simple pod.
The kind field specifies
the kind of object
to be created.
In this case, we create a pod.
The spec field provides
the appropriate fields
for the object to be
created such as the containers
that will run in this pod.
A pod spec must contain
at least one container.
In this example, the
container is named nginx.
The image field dictates
which image will run in
the pod and the ports array
lists the ports that
the container exposes.
A replica set is a set of
identical running replicas of
a pod that are
horizontally scaled.
The configuration
files for a replica
set and a pod are
different from each other.
The replicas field
specifies the number of
replicas that should be
running at any given time.
Whenever this field is updated,
the replica set
creates or deletes
pods to meet the desired
number of replicas.
A pod template is included
in the replica set spec,
which defines the pods that
should be created
by the replica set.
Under the selector field,
the labels supplied in
the match labels field
specify the pods that can be
acquired by the replica set.
Notice that the
label identified in
the match labels
field is the same as
the labels field in
the pod template.
Both are the app nginx.
Creating replica sets
directly is not recommended.
Instead, create a deployment,
which is a higher level
concept that manages
replica sets and offers more
features and better control.
A deployment is a higher
level object that
provides updates for both
pods and replica sets.
Deployments run multiple
replicas of an application using
replica sets and offer
additional management
capabilities on
top of these replica sets.
Deployments are suitable
for stateless applications.
For stateful applications,
stateful sets are used.
Examples of deployments include
the deployment of a
replicated application,
pod updates managed
by a deployment,
or the scaling up
of an application.
This deployment
specification example
shows the kind is deployment,
which defines the
number of replicas,
a selector to identify
which pods can be acquired,
and a pod template.
One key feature provided
by deployments but
not replica sets is
rolling updates.
A rolling update scales up
a new version to the
appropriate number of
replicas and scales down
the old version
to zero replicas.
The replica set ensures that
the appropriate
number of pods exist,
while the deployment
orchestrates
the rollout of a new version.
In this video, you learn that
Kubernetes objects are
persistent entities.
Their main fields are
object spec and status.
Namespaces help in isolating
groups of resources within
a single cluster
and pods represent
a process or an instance of
an app running in the cluster.
Replica sets create and manage
horizontally scaled
running pods and
deployments provide updates
for pods and replica sets.